# Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#1-introduction)
2. [Mechanics](#2-mechanics)
   * [Swimming](#21-swimming)
     - [Attributes](#211-attributes)
     - [Accessories](#212-accessories)
     - [Potions](#213-potions)
   * [Arrow Transformations](#22-arrow-transformations)
   * [Shell Pile Extractination](#23-shell-pile-extractination)
3. [Ambience](#3-ambience)
   * [Tracks](#31-tracks)
   * [Sounds](#32-sounds)
4. [Content](#4-content)
   * [Hatchets](#41-hatchets)
   * [Daggers](#42-daggers)
   * [Tropical](#43-tropical)
   * [Starfish Apprentice](#44-starfish-apprentice)
     - [Armor](#441-armor)
     - [Gear](#442-gear)
   * [Fisherman's Log](#45-fishermans-log)
   * [Oceanographer's Guide](#46-oceanographers-guide)
   * [Sports](#47-sports)
   * [Shipyard](#48-shipyard)

# 1. Introduction
The initial release of the mod will feature plenty of mechanic reworks and new content. Despite not aiming to implement the Seamap and its islands, the version will still allow for players to feel what the mod envisions so far.

# 2. Mechanics
The mod may or may not eventually rework many of the game's mechanics depending on whether it will benefit us or not. For now, swimming, arrow transformations and shell pile extractination are some of them.

## 2.1 Swimming
The new swimming rework will completely modify the way the mechanic currently works by introducing omnidirectional movement, which consequently provides far more exploration and locomotion. Visually, the arms and legs of the player will also be adjusted to match the movement.

### 2.1.1 Attributes
* Oxygen capacity: represents how long the player can stay underwater. - ❌
* Oxygen breathing efficiency: represents how long the player's oxygen is decreased. - ❌

### 2.1.2 Accessories
* Small Air Tank: Increases oxygen capacity by 10 seconds. - ❌
* Standard Air Tank: Increases oxygen capacity by 20 seconds. - ❌
* Large Air Tank: Increases oxygen capacity by 40 seconds. - ❌
* Ultra-Large Air Tank: Increases oxygen capacity by 60 seconds. ❌
* [Flipper](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Flipper): Provides greater turn velocities and greater movement speed underwater. - ❌
* Rebreather: Increases oxygen breathing efficiency by 100%. - ❌

### 2.1.3 Potions
* [Gills Potion](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Gills_Potion): Increases oxygen breathing efficiency by 100%. - ❌

## 2.2 Arrow transformations
* Lava: Transforms [Wooden Arrows](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Wooden_Arrow) into [Flaming arrows](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Flaming_Arrow). - ✔️
* Shimmer: Transforms [Wooden Arrows](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Wooden_Arrow) into [Shimmer arrows](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Shimmer_Arrow). - ✔️

## 2.3 Shell Pile extractination
[Shell Piles](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Shell_Pile) can now be used in an [Extractinator](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Extractinator) and will have the same loot pool as the [Desert Fossil](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Desert_Fossil), with the exception of including a wide variety of new gear and accessories.

# 3. Ambience

The mod further enhances the immersion of the game by adding ambient sounds through loops and randomly played sounds.

## 3.1 Tracks
* Beach waves - ✔️

## 3.2 Sounds
* Beach seagulls - ✔️
* Beach dolphins - ✔️

# 4. Content

The mod adds approximately 48 items, 2 NPCs, 21 tiles, 8 walls and 1 biome as of the current build of November 3rd, 2024. 

## 4.1 Hatchets
Hatchets are a new type of ranged weapons that can be thrown, and will always stick to enemies and tiles, dealing damage over time for the former. Hatchets can also stick to trees and damage them upon impact.

* Ore Hatchets: Copper, Tin, Iron, Lead, Silver, Tungsten, Gold, Platinum - ❌ 

## 4.2 Daggers
Daggers are a new type of melee weapons that act as shortswords, except they will stick to enemies upon impact and deal damage over time.

* Ore Daggers: Copper, Tin, Iron, Lead, Silver, Tungsten, Gold, Platinum - ❌ 

## 4.3 Tropical

## 4.4 Starfish Apprentice
A set from the shoals, made out from corals and a new material called **Enchanted Sand** which is made out of coralsand and fallen stars.
### 4.4.1 Armor
* Pieces
  - **Headgear (2)**: + 20 mana and increased magic damage by 2% - ❌
  - **Visor (3)**: +1 minion slot and increased summon damage by 2% - ❌
  - **Chestplate (3)**: Increased damage by 5% - ❌
  - **Leggings (2)**: + 20 mana - ❌
* **Bonus**: Improves underwater movement and breath cycling. - ❌
### 4.4.2 Gear
* **Fallen Starfish Staff:** Spawns an enchanted starfish that, when out of water and at daytime, flops around and can hit enemies, but at nighttime or when wet, can dash around like a fallen star. Uses only half a minion slot. - ❌

* **Star Catcher:** Has 15% fishing power, on par with the reinforced fishing pole. It is only better due to its faster velocity. - ❌

* **Spinner Fish:** Starfish shurikens that stick onto enemies, dealing small damage over time. - ❌

* **Storming Bottle:** Spawns a storming cloud sentry that periodically releases falling stars, hitting any enemies down below. - ❌

* **Starfish Pump:** A blunderbuss that shoots out a single starfish, charges up for a while, and explodes into 5 spiraling stars. - ❌

## 4.5 Fisherman's Log
The Fisherman's Log is a book that catalogs all caught fish, displaying details like size, weight, rarity, and habitat. It functions like a fish-specific bestiary, with information viewable through a toggleable UI.

## 4.6 Oceanographer's Guide
* **Fish Gills:** Found in [Water Chests](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Water_Chest), improves oxygen efficiency, equivalent to a [Breathing Reed](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Breathing_Reed) - ❌

* **Great Shell:** Found by extracting [Shell Piles](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Shell_Pile). Can also be crafted with 25 Shells at an anvil. Grants immunity to knockback, 1% damage resistance, and 15% reduced movement speed.

* **Dolphin Fin:** Found in [Water Chests](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Water_Chest), grants free underwater movement equivalent to holding a [Trident](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Trident) - ❌

* **Radiant Pearl:** Found by extracting [Shell Piles](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Shell_Pile). Provides a medium amount of light underwater and shows nearby treasure, equivalent to a Spelunker glowstick - ❌

* **Shell Shard:** Found by extracting [Shell Piles](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Shell_Pile). Adds a short-ranged, gravity-affected Shell Shard attack that triggers every second with any weapon you use. This attack deals 10 damage, unaffected by any damage modifiers - ❌

* **Jellyfish Bulb:** Found by killing any kind of jellyfish with a 2% drop chance. This gives the player a small aura, equivalent to 10 blocks in all directions. Enemies in this aura take 7% extra damage from the player. While underwater, this aura receives an extra 20 blocks of range and an additional 7% more damage dealt by the player - ❌

* **Fossilized Coral:** Found by extracting [Shell Piles](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Shell_Pile). Makes all Aqua-based enemies passive toward the player; does not work on bosses or boss minions - ❌

* **Algae Glove:** Found by shimmering a [Water Chest](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Water_Chest). Increases player damage and critical strike chance by 2%. Also increases mining speed by 10% - ❌

* **Shell Necklace:** Found by extracting [Shell Piles](https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Shell_Pile). Grants a 5% chance for a thorns-like effect to take place whenever the player takes damage - ❌

* **Ocean Crest:** Crafted with Fish Gills, Dolphin Fin, Radiant Pearl, Jellyfish Bulb, and 10 Lythen bars at an Anvil. Grants the effects of all combined accessories and slightly strengthens the effects - ❌

* **Oceanographer's Guide:** Crafted with Great Shell, Shell Shard, Fossilized Coral, Algae Glove, Shell Necklace, and 10 Lythen bars at an Anvil. Grants the effects of the combined accessories and slightly strengthens the effects - ❌

## 4.7 Sports

## 4.8 Shipyard


